---
title: 0x: An open protocol for decentralized exchange on the Ethereum blockchain.
description: The 0x protocol is an open standard that enables low-friction peer-to-peer exchange of ERC20 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain.
date: "2017-02-21 00:00:00"
tags:
  - decentralized exchange
  - cryptocurrency
  - liquidity
link: https://github.com/0xProject/whitepaper/blob/master/0x_white_paper.pdf
techstack:
  - Solidity
  - Ethereum
  - Web3.js
  - 0x.js
  - React
company:
  - name: 0x
  - slug: 0x
  - image: https://res.cloudinary.com/dp2uu228v/image/upload/w_100,h_100,c_fill,dpr_2.0,f_auto/so0wosij8fqzmox2cqrt
  - description: 0x is an open, permissionless protocol allowing for ERC20 tokens to be traded on the Ethereum blockchain
  - twitter: 0xProject
  - website: https://0x.org/
---

# 0x brief

The 0x protocol is an open standard that enables low-friction peer-to-peer exchange of ERC20 tokens while enabling interoperability between decentralized applications (dApps) on the Ethereum blockchain. 

It uses a system of publicly accessible Ethereum smart contracts that any dApp can hook into, allowing for interoperability and access to public liquidity pools. DApps built on top of the protocol can also create their liquidity pool and charge transaction fees on the resulting volume. 

Decentralized governance ensures the continuous and secure integration of updates into the base protocol through a transparent and community-driven process where stakeholders can propose and vote on changes.

## Summary

The 0x paper outlines a protocol for the decentralized exchange of ERC20 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. The paper covers several topics, including:

### Introduction

Decentralized applications (dApps) on Ethereum have led to the creation of many smart contracts for peer-to-peer exchange. However, this has resulted in a fragmented landscape where end users are exposed to smart contracts of varying quality and security, all serving the same purpose. Unfortunately, this approach imposes unnecessary costs while fragmenting end users according to the particular dApp they are using, destroying valuable network effects around liquidity.

The 0x protocol provides a standardized and interoperable solution for decentralized exchanges (DEXs) on Ethereum. It offers a set of smart contracts that act as building blocks, empowering developers to easily create and customize their DEXs, minimizing fragmentation.

In the long run, open technical standards tend to outperform closed ones. And as asset tokenization expands, an open exchange standard becomes crucial. 

### Existing Work

Decentralized exchanges on Ethereum face inefficiencies due to on-chain order books (an electronic list of buy and sell orders), resulting in high costs for market makers. 

Automated market makers (AMMs) offer an alternative by replacing order books with price-adjustment models but require careful balance to avoid excessive price fluctuations or exploitation by arbitrageurs.

State channels (allow participants to securely transact off-chain while keeping interaction with Ethereum Mainnet at a minimum) provide scalability and cost reduction, but they are not ideal for one-time transactions due to the overhead of opening and closing channels.

A hybrid approach, called "off-chain order relay with on-chain settlement" combines the efficiency of state channels with instant settlement of on-chain order books. Cryptographically signed orders are broadcasted off-chain, and interested counterparties can execute trades trustlessly on the blockchain. This approach minimizes friction costs and allows anyone to act as an exchange, making the protocol application-agnostic.

### Specification

The specification section outlines the technical details of the 0x protocol, including the message format for orders and the smart contract that governs token exchange. The message format includes two types of orders: point-to-point orders and broadcast orders. The smart contract includes features such as signature authentication, fills & partial fills, expiration time, and canceling orders.

The message format includes two types of orders: point-to-point orders and broadcast orders.

Also, the smart contract includes features such as signature authentication, fills & partial fills, expiration time, and canceling orders.

### Protocol Token

This section provides examples of how the 0x protocol can be used in various scenarios, such as decentralized prediction markets and peer-to-peer lending.

### Summary

The conclusion summarizes the benefits of the 0x protocol, including increased liquidity, reduced fees, and improved user experience. 

It also highlights future developments for the protocol, such as governance mechanisms and support for non-fungible tokens (NFTs).
